[Blog] Announcement of Falco OVH MKS audit logs plugin (#1457)
falcosecurity/falco-website: content/en/blog/detect-threats-falco-ovh-mks-audit-logs-plugin/index.md

---
title: Detecting Threats in OVHcloud MKS Audit Logs with Falco
date: 2025-03-13
author: Aurélie Vache
slug: detect-threats-falco-ovh-mks-audit-logs-plugin
images:
  - /blog/detect-threats-falco-ovh-mks-audit-logs-plugin/images/k8saudit-ovh-featured.png
tags: ["Falco","Kubernetes", "Plugin", "OVHcloud", "MKS", "auditlogs"]
---

> Detecting threats in a Kubernetes cluster can be challenging, we generally don't know where and how to start.
> The good news is that we have an amount of valuable logs that can help us to know what is happened in the cluster. Indeed, each actions, requested or done by a user or an app, in a cluster, are recorded in Audit Logs.
> Kubernetes events are key to understand the behavior of a cluster.
> 
> We already provide plugins that let you parse Audit Logs and use Falco to detect threats from GKE, EKS and AKS clusters. With our latest plugin, you'll now have the same powerful threat detection capabilities for your OVHcloud MKS clusters 🎉.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Detecting threats in a Kubernetes cluster can be challenging, we generally don't know where and how to start.
The good news is that we have an amount of valuable logs that can help us to know what is happened in the cluster. Indeed, each action requested or done by a user or an app, in a cluster, is recorded in Audit Logs.
Kubernetes events are key to understanding the behavior of a cluster.

We already provide plugins that let you parse Audit Logs and use Falco to detect threats from GKE, EKS and AKS clusters. With our latest plugin, you'll now have the same powerful threat detection capabilities for your OVHcloud MKS clusters 🎉.
```

## What is Falco?

Falco is an Open Source cloud-native runtime security tool. It provides near real-time threat detection for cloud, container, and Kubernetes workloads by leveraging runtime insights. Falco can monitor events from various sources, including the Linux kernel, and enrich them with metadata from the Kubernetes API server, container runtime, and more.

Falco can receive **Events**, compare them to a set of **Rules** to determine the actions to perform and generate **Alerts** to different endpoints. 

## What is the OVH MKS Audit Logs plugin?

> The OVH audit logs plugin (k8saudit-ovh) extends Falco's capabilities to OVHcloud Managed Kubernetes Service (MKS) clusters, providing you with the same security insights and threat detection Falco already offers for GKE, EKS and AKS environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OVH audit logs plugin ([k8saudit-ovh](https://github.com/falcosecurity/plugins/tree/main/plugins/k8saudit-ovh)) extends Falco's capabilities to OVHcloud Managed Kubernetes Service (MKS) clusters, providing you with the same security insights and threat detection Falco already offers for GKE, EKS and AKS environments.
```

> With this plugin, you can seamlessly integrate MKS Audit Logs into Falco's event processing pipeline, enabling it to identify anomalies, suspicious activities, and policy violations within your MKS-based workloads.
> 
> Concretely, when an user will execute some **kubectl** commands in an OVHcloud MKS cluster, Audit Logs will be generated. Falco is listening from them and depending on the configured rules to follow, it will generate some alerts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this plugin, you can seamlessly integrate MKS Audit Logs into Falco's event processing pipeline, enabling it to identify anomalies, suspicious activities, and policy violations within your MKS-based workloads.

Concretely, when a user executes some **kubectl** commands in an OVHcloud MKS cluster, Audit Logs will be generated. Falco is listening to them, and depending on the configured rules to follow, it will generate some alerts.
```

![Falco Kubernetes API Server Audit Logs](images/falco-apiserver.png)

## Using OVH MKS Audit Logs plugin

> In order to use the OVH MKS Audit Logs plugin, you must follow several steps:
> * deploy an OVHcloud LDP (Logs Data Platform)
> * create a data stream into this LDP
> * connect an OVHcloud MKS cluster to the data stream (to send Audit Logs into it)
> 
> To be able to access to our Kubernetes clusters Audit Logs, you need to deploy a [LDP](https://www.ovhcloud.com/en/identity-security-operations/logs-data-platform/). LDP is the managed platform for collecting, processing, analyzing and storing your logs of the OVHcloud products. Deploy a LDP (Bare Metal Cloud universe) with the wathever plan you want.
> 
> OVHcloud Kubernetes Audit Logs will be stored in a data stream. The OVHcloud Audit Logs Falco plugin receive the audit logs through Websocket so you need to enable **Websocket broadcasting** when you create the data stream on LDP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to use the OVH MKS Audit Logs plugin, you must follow several steps:
* deploy an OVHcloud LDP (Logs Data Platform)
* create a data stream into this LDP
* connect an OVHcloud MKS cluster to the data stream (to send Audit Logs into it)

To be able to access our Kubernetes clusters' Audit Logs, you need to deploy an [LDP](https://www.ovhcloud.com/en/identity-security-operations/logs-data-platform/). LDP is the managed platform for collecting, processing, analyzing, and storing your logs of the OVHcloud products. Deploy an LDP (Bare Metal Cloud universe) with whatever plan you want.

OVHcloud Kubernetes Audit Logs will be stored in a data stream. The OVHcloud Audit Logs Falco plugin receive the audit logs through Websocket so you need to enable **Websocket broadcasting** when you create the data stream on LDP.
```

{"hostname":"my-pool-1-node-921b61","output":"09:15:57.807013000: Warning K8s Operation performed by user not in allowed list of users (user=yacht target=my-pool-1/nodepools verb=update uri=/apis/kube.cloud.ovh.com/v1alpha1/nodepools/my-pool-1/status resp=200)","output_fields":{"evt.time":1739178957807013000,"ka.response.code":"200","ka.target.name":"my-pool-1","ka.target.resource":"nodepools","ka.uri":"/apis/kube.cloud.ovh.com/v1alpha1/nodepools/my-pool-1/status","ka.user.name":"yacht","ka.verb":"update"},"priority":"Warning","rule":"Disallowed K8s User","source":"k8s_audit","tags":["k8s"],"time":"2025-02-10T09:15:57.807013000Z"}
```

## Let's test it!

> In order to test Falco we need to know which rules are installed by default. In our case, as we defined it in the **values.yaml** file, the k8saudit-ovh plugin follow the [k8s_audit_rules.yaml](https://github.com/falcosecurity/plugins/blob/main/plugins/k8saudit/rules/k8s_audit_rules.yaml) file. You can take a look at them in order to know them.
> 
> In this blog post we will test one of well-known default k8s audit rules:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to test Falco we need to know which rules are installed by default. In our case, as we defined it in the **values.yaml** file, the k8saudit-ovh plugin follow the [k8s_audit_rules.yaml](https://github.com/falcosecurity/plugins/blob/main/plugins/k8saudit/rules/k8s_audit_rules.yaml) file. You can take a look at them in order to know them.

In this blog post we will test one of the well-known default k8s audit rules:
```

  source: k8s_audit
  tags: [k8s]
```

This rule is interesting because an event will be generated if/when an user execute commands in a pod.

Let’s test the rule!

In a tab of your terminal, watch the coming logs:

```bash
$ kubectl logs -l app.kubernetes.io/name=falco -n falco -c falco -f
```

In an another tab of your terminal, create a Nginx pod and execute a command into it:

```bash
$ kubectl run nginx --image=nginx

$ kubectl exec -it nginx -n hello-app -- cat /etc/shadow
```

Several seconds laters, in the logs you should see this you will see this Attach/Exec to pod logs:

```bash
...
{"hostname":"my-pool-1-node-921b61","output":"09:29:46.302906000: Notice Attach/Exec to pod (user=kubernetes-admin pod=nginx-676b6c5bbc-4xc6t resource=pods ns=hello-app action=exec command=cat)","output_fields":{"evt.time":1739179786302906000,"ka.target.name":"nginx-676b6c5bbc-4xc6t","ka.target.namespace":"hello-app","ka.target.resource":"pods","ka.target.subresource":"exec","ka.uri.param[command]":"cat","ka.user.name":"kubernetes-admin"},"priority":"Notice","rule":"Attach/Exec Pod","source":"k8s_audit","tags":["k8s"],"time":"2025-02-10T09:29:46.302906000Z"}
...
```

💪

## Let's meet!

> If you have planned to go to the KubeCon + CloudNative Con EU 2025 at London, don't hesitate to stop at the Falco booth in the Project Pavillon!

Reviewer: :partying_face:
